# ATS 
### Description:
An attendance Tracking system is how a organization keeps track of the time and attendance information of students. A good attendance tracking system saves you time and effort.  It cuts down on paperwork and saves time so that accurate attendance reports can be made. It is safe because each user has their own login ID and password. This system lets the instructor take attendance and generate an attendance report. The instructor can also see number of students who are in class.

An attendance tracking system will allow teachers to reduce the amount of time they spend manually documenting attendance. The major goal is to automate student attendance by scanning a QR code and updating attendance in the course, as well as informing the Instructor of attendance report.

An attendance tracking System is an  iOS application that enables users to update their attendance by scanning the QR code generated by the instructor with their camera and being linked to the website, where they can check up information about the courses and their attendance reports. The teacher, on the other hand, can generate a QR code for a particular course and look at student information such as attendance arrival time, student count, and an overall class report. The data will be updated automatically from the backend, i.e. Firebase. In this application, the instructor may save a lot of back-end work like manually updating data, and avoid corrections that are done manually, and record an accurate attendance by scanning the QR code, which also helps to record the late attendance if they are later to class by recording the time. In this application, there are 3 modules like Admin, Instructor, Student, the main function of this program is played by the admin module, which serves as the manager of all the functions. Admin enters all the information regarding the students, faculty and courses. Faculty has two functions. He or she can first generate a QR code that students can scan to record their attendance. 

<b>Set Up for the project:</b>
1. First install the required tools Xcode, Firebase and connector to connect xcode project to phone for testing.
2. For Xcode installation follow the link 
   [Link to Download Xcode](https://download.developer.apple.com/Developer_Tools/Xcode_14.1/Xcode_14.1.xip)<br>
   Xcode is compatable in Mac with OS 13 or higher versions.
3. For using the Firebase use the following credentials<br>
   Username : attendancesystem90@gmail.com<br>
   Password : Test123@1234
4. After done with required tools download the project from git
5. Extract the project and run the xcworkspace using the xcode
6. We can run the project in simulator and can launch in personal phones
7. We can launch the project in phone by using the connector
8. Firstly, we need to turn the developer mode in phone<br>
   Secondly, we need to add our apple if in Signing and Capabilities<br>
   Next run the project using the required authorized phone id instead of simulator<br>
   Then atlast project will be launched in connected phone<br>


